---
layout: paper

year: 2015

title: Just noticeable distortion profile for flat-shaded 3D mesh surfaces
authors:
  - ["Georges Nader", [0, 1]]
  - ["Kai Wang", [1]]
  - ["Franck Hétroy-Wheeler", [2]]
  - ["Florent Dupont", [0]]
affiliations:
  - Université de Lyon - LIRIS
  - Université Grenoble Alpes - GIPSA-Lab
  - Université Grenoble Alpes - LJK

journal: IEEE transactions on visualization and computer graphics

links:
  journal: http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TVCG.2015.2507578
  preprint: https://hal.archives-ouvertes.fr/hal-01242271/document
  bib: https://gnader.github.io/assets/img/pub/[bib]_2016_jnd.bib

caption: >
  The just noticeable distortion profile for the Bimba model under different circumstances. (a) and (b) show color map representing the displacement threshold in a light-independent mode with respect to a displacement in the normal direction and tangent plane respectively. (c) shows the displacement threshold according to a displacement in the normal direction in a light dependant mode.
---

#### Abstract

It is common that a 3D mesh undergoes some lossy operations (e.g., compression, watermarking and transmission through noisy channels), which can introduce geometric distortions as a change in vertex position. In most cases the end users of 3D meshes are human beings; therefore, it is important to evaluate the visibility of introduced vertex displacement. In this paper we present a model for computing a Just Noticeable Distortion (JND) profile for flat-shaded 3D meshes. The proposed model is based on an experimental study of the properties of the human visual system while observing a flat-shaded 3D mesh surface, in particular the contrast sensitivity function and contrast masking. We first define appropriate local perceptual properties on 3D meshes. We then detail the results of a series of psychophysical experiments where we have measured the threshold needed for a human observer to detect the change in vertex position. These results allow us to compute the JND profile for flat-shaded 3D meshes. The proposed JND model has been evaluated via a subjective experiment, and applied to guide 3D mesh simplification as well as to determine the optimal vertex coordinates quantization level for a 3D model.

#### Citation

<pre class="text-muted alert-secondary small col-12">
<code>
@article{jndmesh_2016,
  author  = {Georges {Nader} and Kai. {Wang} and Franck {Hétroy-Wheeler} and Florent {Dupont}},
  title   = {Just Noticeable Distortion Profile for Flat-Shaded 3D Mesh Surfaces},
  journal = {IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Computer Graphics},
  year    = {2016},
  volume  = {22},
  number  = {11},
  pages   = {2423-2436}
  }
</code>
</pre>
